==ActiveRecord-JDBC Database Support==

ActiveRecord-JDBC 0.9.1 supports normal AR operations and basic migrations for the following databases:

* MySQL
* PostgreSQL
* SQLite3 (except change_column)
* Oracle
* HSQLDB (except migrations and habtm at least.)
* H2
* Microsoft SQL Server (except for change_column_default)
* DB2 (except change_column, change_column_default, rename_column, remove_column, add_index, remove_index and rename_table)
* Derby (except change_column, change_column_default, remove_column, rename_column)
* FireBird (except change_column_default and rename_column)

==Usage==

Here's a walkthrough for MySQL in ultra-condensed form:

1. Grab a JRuby release: [[Main_Page#Downloads]] and unpack it

2. Set up path for JRuby

      export PATH=$PATH:[jruby-dir]/bin

3. Install Rails

      jruby -S gem install rails

4. Install ActiveRecord-JDBC for MySQL (see [http://jruby-extras.rubyforge.org/activerecord-jdbc-adapter the documentation] for other options). This will also install the dependent gem: '''activerecord-jdbc-adapter'''.

      jruby -S gem install activerecord-jdbcmysql-adapter

You should see something like the following:

    Successfully installed activerecord-jdbc-adapter-0.9.1
    Successfully installed activerecord-jdbcmysql-adapter-0.9.1

5. Generate a Rails App

      rails ~/testapp --database mysql

6 . Go to the app

      cd ~/testapp

7. If you're using Rails 2.0 modify database.yml by prepending "jdbc" to the adapter name. For PostgreSQL, you'll need to add the "host" parameter as well. If you're NOT using Rails 2.0, don't modify your database.yml file.

ActiveRecord-JDBC version 0.9.0:
      #SQLite3
      development:
        adapter: jdbcsqlite3
        url: jdbc:sqlite:test.db # path to sqlite3 dbfile

ActiveRecord-JDBC version 0.9.1:
      #SQLite3
      development:
        adapter: jdbcsqlite3
        database: db/development.db

      #MYSQL
      development:
        adapter: jdbcmysql
        encoding: utf8
        database: testapp_development
        username: root
        password:

      #POSTGRES
      development:
        adapter: jdbcpostgresql
        encoding: unicode
        host: localhost
        database: testapp_development
        username: testapp
        password:

      #ORACLE
      development:
        adapter: jdbc
        driver: oracle.jdbc.OracleDriver
        url: jdbc:oracle:thin:@myOracleHost:1521:mySID
        username: myUser
        password: myPass

      #JavaDB/DerbyDB
      development:
        adapter: jdbc
        driver: org.apache.derby.jdbc.EmbeddedDriver
        url: jdbc:derby:{database};create=true
        

8. If you're using Rails 2.0, you're done. The rest of configuration (including JDBC driver jar) is done automatically.  If you're running Rails 1.2.x, you'll need to modify environment.rb. Add the following snippet inside the Rails::Initializer block:

      if RUBY_PLATFORM =~ /java/
        require 'jdbc/mysql' #per jdbc-mysql-5.0.4/README.txt
      end

9. Create a testapp_development database, grants for testapp user, and widgets table in MySQL (use migrations if you like)

10. Scaffold Widgets CRUD

      jruby script/generate scaffold widget

11. Start up the server

      jruby script/server

12. In your browser, go to [http://localhost:3000/widgets]

And that's about it. You've got a scaffolded widget page running in JRuby over JDBC to MySQL.

==Troubleshooting==

* ActiveRecord-JDBC does not install: I had some trouble myself; I think something's up with either RubyForge or with our released gem. You can always download ActiveRecord-JDBC and install it locally, of course.
* scaffold fails with an error about "nonexistent jdbc adapter": Ensure you've added the require line to environment.rb (hopefully this will be unnecessary in the future)
* scaffold and script/server terminate without running: Make sure you've successfully installed the ActiveRecord-JDBC gem. The additional require in environment.rb causes Rails scripts to die silently if there are any errors.
* scaffold fails with the error "cannot convert NilClass into String": Make sure you've correctly specified the driver and url lines in database.yml
* "unable to choose type from ... for decimal": postgresql and oracle don't report a type for decimal. Fixed in ActiveRecord-JDBC trunk.
* if you see this error when trying to run a migration:
  rake aborted!
  undefined method `last' for {}:Hash
it probably means you had previously used the 0.7.0 version of the activerecord-jdbcmysql-adapter and it had created the following rake task file in your rails application:
  lib/tasks/jdbc_databases.rake
* net/ssh doesn't work at this time with jruby 1.0.3 and net/ssh 1.1.2
Delete this file and the error should go away. See: [http://jira.codehaus.org/browse/JRUBY-1859/ JRUBY-1859] for more info.
* See [[Troubleshooting#JNI gotchas]] if you see this error when using SQL Server:
 com.microsoft.sqlserver.jdbc.AuthenticationJNI
 {clinit}
 WARNING: Failed to load the sqljdbc_auth.dll
* You have foxy_fixtures plugin installed and you get the following error: 
<code>'load_missing_constant': uninitialized constant ActiveRecord::ConnectionAdapters::MysqlAdapter (NameError)</code>. 

This error occurs because foxy_features ships with built-in active_record adatpers for mysql, sqlite and postgresql. Specifying any of the jdbc:{dbname} or just jdbc will cause foxy_fixtures to load the MySQL ruby driver by default. This, obviously, will fail since there is no native MySQL driver for JRuby. To be able to run the app, the easy fix is to take the plugin out (uninstall). Development and testing with foxy_fixtures and activerecord-jdbc still needs to be researched.
