[[Home|&raquo; JRuby Project Wiki Home Page]]
=Deploying JRuby applications with [http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.5.0/docs/guide/javaws// Java Web Start]=
__TOC__
===Known Issues===
[http://jira.codehaus.org/secure/IssueNavigator.jspa?reset=true&query=%22web+start%22+%7C%7C+jnlp+%7C%7C+webstart+%7C%7C+javaws&summary=true&description=true&body=true&pid=11295&status=1&status=3 Open JIRA Issues matching "Web Start or jnlp or javaws"]

===Samples===
The samples directory distributed with JRuby has an example jnlp, [http://github.com/jruby/jruby/blob/master/samples/irb-applet.html] that will start the JRuby Swing IRB console as a Java Web Start application.
See also [http://github.com/jruby/jruby/tree/master/samples/jnlp/]

Here is  deployed instance: [http://tim.lossen.de/2007/03/jruby/applet.html]

====Getting jirb.jnlp sample to work in Java 1.5====
The [http://svn.codehaus.org/jruby/trunk/jruby/samples/jirb.jnlp/ jirb.jnlp] needs to be modified to work on Java 1.5 because of the use of <tt>..</tt> in the codebase attribute, which only works in Java 1.6.
# Make a symbolic link to the directory <tt>$JRUBY_HOME/lib</tt> in the samples directory (or make a copy of the lib directory).<br/><tt> &nbsp; $ cd $JRUBY_HOME/samples<br/> &nbsp; $ ln -s ../lib</tt>
# Change the codebase attribute in the jnlp element to use a reference to the local directory.<br/><tt> &nbsp; &lt;jnlp spec="1.0+" codebase="file:."&gt;</tt>
# Start the jnlp using javaws from the command line. <br/><tt> &nbsp; $ javaws jirb.jnlp</tt>

====New jnlp samples dir====
The following Jira issue includes an attachment that, when extracted in <tt>samples/</tt> adds both unsigned and signed examples that work in Java 1.5 and 1.6. It is projected to be included in JRUBY 1.1 RC2.
* [http://jira.codehaus.org/browse/JRUBY-2040 JRUBY-2040: new samples/jnlp dir: includes both unsigned and signed examples that work in Java 1.5 and 1.6]

===JAR Signing===
If you're getting <tt>java.securityAccessControlException</tt> with the message <tt>access denied (java.lang.RuntimePermission accessDeclaredMembers)</tt> on startup or when running your JRuby application, then you need to sign your jar. The whole process is described 
[http://java.sun.com/products/javawebstart/1.2/docs/developersguide.html#dev here], under "Signing JAR Files with a Test Certificate". 

You basically have to perform the following steps:

 keytool -genkey -keystore myKeystore -alias myself
 keytool -selfcert -alias myself -keystore myKeystore

You also need to include to following lines in your jnlp-file:
 &lt;security&gt; 
   &lt;all-permissions/&gt; 
 &lt;/security&gt;

Whenever you modify the jar, you need to do the following to update the signature:
 jarsigner -keystore myKeystore test.jar myself

===Disabling the Security Manager===
If you have a signed jar and the startup fails because of a <tt>java.lang.reflect.ReflectPermission</tt>, or you continue to have <tt>access denied (java.lang.RuntimePermission accessDeclaredMembers)</tt> errors, you can just disable the security manager.

'''Using JRuby:'''
 java.lang.System.setSecurityManager(nil)
'''Using Java:'''
 System.setSecurityManager(null);
Disclaimer: I'm not an expert on Java Security, so I don't know if disabling the Security Manager has unintended side effects. <nowiki>[User:Mstocker|Mstocker]</nowiki> 10:49, 30 December 2007 (PST)

See: [http://jira.codehaus.org/browse/JRUBY-1821/ JRUBY-1821] and [http://jira.codehaus.org/browse/JRUBY-1782/ JRUBY-1782].

=== External Links ===

http://almaer.com/blog/running-ruby-in-the-browser-via-script-typetextruby has some interesting stuff