[[Home|&raquo; JRuby Project Wiki Home Page]] 
=Communicate: Mailing Lists, IRC, JIRA (bugs)=

''Note: JRuby's mailing lists will soon move to our Kenai.com project. For now, follow the instructions below. We will announce and auto-migrate everyone to the new lists when the time comes.''

The JRuby community uses several mailing lists to discuss issues, ask for help, and follow JRuby development:

* '''The Users List''' hosts general usage discussions, howtos, and help are discussed here.
* '''The Developers List''' is where folks hacking JRuby and working on deeper integration with other systems can communicate.
* '''The SCM List''' allows anyone to track JRuby commits and JIRA bug tracker updates.
* '''The Issues List''' receives all the new issues created, for lower-traffic tracking of the bug tracker.

To join one or more of the JRuby mailing lists:

# Navigate to [http://xircles.codehaus.org/projects/jruby/lists].
# Click the ''Subscribe'' link for any of the lists (it doesn't matter which) and provide your email.
# The Xircles application will send you a confirmation email. Click the link in the email to return to Xircles.
# At [http://xircles.codehaus.org/projects/jruby/lists Xircles] chooose the subscribe links for the lists you want to subscribe to.

Nabble also has a web archive of both the [http://www.nabble.com/JRuby-f14106.html jruby-dev and jruby-user email lists] and has an excellent interface for searching the lists.

There is a mirror of the jruby-user list at Google: [http://groups.google.com/group/jruby-users].
