Here is a list of sites and projects using JRuby. Please add descriptions if possible. 

<table>
<tr>
<th align="left">Project</th>

<th align="left">Description</th>

<th>Why is JRuby Needed?</th>

<th>How is it Used?</th>

<th>Using Java</th>

<th>Any Regrets?</th>

<th>Hits/day, Tx/s, other metrics</th>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>[http://telegard.org OpenTelegard/2]</td>
<td>
OpenSource implementation of the Telegard BBS.</td>

<td>JRuby offered advantages of many existing Java libraries not available for MRI Ruby.</td>

<td>Primary Lanaguage</td>

<td>OpenJDK 6</td>

<td>None</td>

<td></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>[http://uploadbooth.com/about UploadBooth.com]</td>
<td>
UploadBooth is a service that enables you to upload and share tagged files with others online in a simple way. You can start using UploadBooth right away by uploading your first batch of files.</td>

<td></td>

<td></td>

<td></td>

<td></td>

<td></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>[https://www.blissmessage.com blissmessage.com]</td>

<td>BlissMessage is an iPhone app which lets you send free text messages from iPhone to iPhone and from the web to iPhones as well. It leverages push notifications for instant delivery of the messages. While the basic use case is sending free text messages to other users, you can also get notified about your Twitter replies and mentions if you enter your Twitter name in the profile.</td>

<td>Easy and performant integration of mature MQ technologies (ActiveMQ). Java is a high-performant language to fall back on in case, and it's safer for me to code Java than C</td>

<td>NGINX - Jetty - JRuby-Rack</td>

<td>No.</td>

<td>No.</td>

<td></td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td>[http://pons.eu PONS.eu]</td>

<td>Multi-language high-performance online dictionary designed to serve millions of search requests a day. The system combines high-quality content by the renowned dictionary publisher PONS with content generated by the web's crowd intelligence. The scalable system is developed and hosted by [http://finn.de/2009/5/1/online-dictionary-pons-eu finnlabs].</td>

<td>To share large in-process caches and lucene indeces between multiple rails instances and to reuse Java libraries.</td>

<td>Optimized Java App handles perfomance critical dictionary search requests, whilst JRuby on Rails runs everything else.</td>

<td>Yes</td>

<td>No.</td>

<td>Millions of search requests a day.</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td>[http://getjotbot.com JotBot]</td>

<td>Desktop based time tracking and reporting tool</td>

<td>Gives access to Swing, JDBC, JDIC, etc.</td>

<td>Ruby logic layer drives app and calls into Java libraries</td>

<td>Yes</td>

<td>No</td>

<td></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>[http://labs.openmaru.com/projects/springbook/pages/484920?lang=en SpringBook]</td>

<td></td>

<td></td>

<td></td>

<td></td>

<td></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>[http://openwferu.rubyforge.org OpenWFEru]</td>

<td></td>

<td></td>

<td></td>

<td></td>

<td></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>[http://kenai.com Project Kenai]</td>

<td>Open Source, Student and Developer Collaboration Site for Software Projects</td>

<td></td>

<td>JRuby on Rails running on Glassfish</td>

<td>Not directly</td>

<td>No</td>

<td>~15K/day (as of 2008-10-29) and growing</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>[http://studios.thoughtworks.com/mingle-project-intelligence Mingle]</td>

<td></td>

<td></td>

<td></td>

<td></td>

<td></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>[http://mix.oracle.com Oracle Mix]</td>

<td>Running on Oracle Application Server, Oracle Database, Oracle Internet Directory,
Oracle SSO, and JRuby 1.1RC2 on Rails (1.2.6). Built by the Oracle AppsLab in
collaboration with ThoughtWorks.</td>

<td></td>

<td></td>

<td>Yes</td>

<td>No</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>[http://the-shoebox.org/apps/44 Ruby-Processing]</td>

<td>A Wrapper for Processing, a visual coding sketchbook.</td>

<td>To access the Processing library.</td>

<td></td>

<td>Yes</td>

<td>No</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>[http://spin.atomicobject.com/2007/11/12/desktop-application-development-in-jruby Desktop Application Development in JRuby]</td>

<td></td>

<td></td>

<td></td>

<td></td>

<td></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>[http://sonar.hortis.ch Sonar]</td>

<td>An open-source entreprise dashboard which gauges quality of Java applications through
the observance of coding rules conventions, metric measures and advanced indicators.</td>

<td>Embed Ruby/Rails into a JEE application</td>

<td>Jetty server + goldspike + activerecord-jdbc-adapter. Build with maven.</td>

<td>Yes</td>

<td>No</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>[http://mediacast.sun.com Mediacast]</td>

<td>A (media)file hosting application.
[http://blog.igorminar.com/2008/01/jruby-on-rails-rewrite-of.html Development and
deployment details]</td>

<td></td>

<td></td>

<td>Yes</td>

<td>No</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>[http://www.medienservice.sachsen.de/ Medienservice Sachsen]</td>

<td>The local government of Saxony (Germany) publishes all its press releases via this
application.</td>

<td>App built on Rails, target environment is J2EE-only</td>

<td>Running Rails, acessing Java libraries from the Rails app.</td>

<td>Yes</td>

<td>No</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>[http://code.google.com/p/schnell-jruby/ schnell]</td>

<td>schnell is a zippy (Fast), yippy (Easy) and hippy (Cool) tool for testing
websites.</td>

<td>Written on jruby using webdriver (formerly htmlunit)</td>

<td>schnell is a headless browser web application testing tool and uses webdriver
(formerly htmlunit) as its driver.</td>

<td>Yes</td>

<td>No</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>[http://www.trisano.org TriSano]</td>

<td>TriSano&acirc;&bdquo;&cent; is an open source, citizen-focused surveillance and
outbreak management system for infectious disease, environmental hazards, and
bioterrorism attacks. It allows local, state and federal entities to track, control and
ultimately prevent illness and death.</td>

<td>Extensive roadmap - didn't think Ruby alone could get it done and want to fall back
to Java rather than C.</td>

<td>Running Rails</td>

<td>Not yet, but will likely soon</td>

<td>No</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>[http://www.auktionskompaniet.com Auktionskompaniet.com]</td>

<td>Auktionskompaniet.com is a Swedish chain of auction houses owned by Bukowskis
Auktioner AB, Swedens biggest auction house. Auktionskompaniet hold auctions with objects
in the average consumer price range.</td>

<td>Third-party library integration</td>

<td>Rails (2.1.2), Warbler 0.9.11, Glassfish v2, Ubuntu 8.04</td>

<td>Yes</td>

<td>No</td>

<td>~100k page views / day (2008-10)</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>[http://scrip-safe.com SCRIP-SAFE]</td>

<td>Secure transcript delivery system developed by [http://theedgecase.com EdgeCase]</td>

<td>to make use of java libraries</td>

<td>Rails</td>

<td>No</td>

<td>No</td>

<td></td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>[http://cmon.lip6.fr/hnp/ HomeNet Profiler]</td>

<td>Measurements in home networks, for research purposes</td>

<td>Portability with a GUI. Java libraries</td>

<td>Executable JAR</td>

<td>Yes</td>

<td>No</td>

<td>Successfuly ran 2500 runs on more than 2100 heterogeneous machines (OSes/countries etc.).</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>[https://eazybi.com/ eazyBI]</td>

<td>eazyBI is easy to use business intelligence web application for analyzing data either from uploaded files or from other source applications.</td>

<td>1) to integrate [http://mondrian.pentaho.com/ Mondrian OLAP] Java library using [https://github.com/rsim/mondrian-olap mondrian-olap] gem, 2) to create compiled standalone war package for on-site application deployment</td>

<td>Primary language to develop Ruby on Rails 3.x application. Production deployment using Kirk or remote deployment using embedded Winstone or using Tomcat or other Java app servers.</td>

<td>OpenJDK 6</td>

<td>Almost none (just slower development and test startup time compared with MRI)</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td></td>

<td></td>

<td></td>

<td></td>

<td></td>

<td></td>
</tr>
</table>

See also:

* [http://ruby.sys-con.com/node/1192377/mobile Engine Yard Announces Momentum of JRuby]